xen_debug: initial commit (#32)
3mdeb/news-and-ideas: blog/content/post/2022-06-29-xen-debugging-and-development-environment.md

`xen-upstream-<version>.deb` in rootfs which hosts the VMs and copy the Xen
kernel from `/boot/xen-<version>.gz` to tftpboot/httpboot directory (gunzip the
kernel first).

After whole this effort, I was able to boot my freshly built Xen on apu2c4 with
Debian host and Debian guest OS. Now that I have prepared the developing
procedure I can start narrowing down all the issues.

# Infrastructure

Nature of Embedded Systems Consulting company forced us to build reliable
infrastructure for kernels and rootfs building and deployment. It took quite
a lot of time since there are a lot of options, but not much was working
according to our specs.

Our virtualization platform of choice was Proxmox we had to stick to that since
the transition was not an option. We started to put together our stack:

* Proxmox as a virtualization platform
* docker-machine as hosts (VMs) management tool
* [docker-machine-driver-proxmox-ve](https://github.com/lnxbil/docker-machine-driver-proxmox-ve)
  driver required for docker-machine so it can communicate with Proxmox
* [RancherOS](https://rancher.com/rancher-os/) as our container OS
* [isar](https://github.com/ilbers/isar) as rootfs building framework

> * [meta-virtualization](https://git.yoctoproject.org/cgit/cgit.cgi/meta-virtualization/) as a framework for building Xen from source

Author: @Asiderr this is extremely outdated. Rancher OS is dead now. Also we are no longer Embedded System Consulting :)

Reviewer: Sure, I will fix this. Should I change this stack to the apu/debian based stack?

Reviewer: Or should I just cut out this last paragraph? It seems to be not relevant, adds nothing the the topic IMO.

Author: @Asiderr let's think what is the purpose of this article?

- We present containerized environment to build Xen
- Why we need custom Xen? - we can build products based (e.g. [lpnRouter](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0gPXXlWc1bw) on that or support existing projects (e.g. [XCP-ng](https://xcp-ng.com/), although I'm not sure if it is possible since they rely on XenServer from Citrix, but to some extent there is relation here, there is also XCP-ng and Protectli relation, which may make sense from Dasharo security features, [OpenXT](https://openxt.org/). There was also some customer demand related to edge computing. We test Xen i 3mdeb infrastructure, if this procedure works TAT should be able to include it in validation - according to [this](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1_uRhVo9eYeZONnelymonYp444zYHT_Q_qmJEJ8_XqJc/edit?usp=sharing) our test rely on Xen 4.8 :scream: 
- Custom Xen needs CI, which needs scalable (dockerized/containerized) build environment

I expect to remove infrastructure paragraph or improve it to explain value this article can provide to community, our partners and 3mdeb.

Reviewer: Imho, from a low-level perspective, the main purpose of this article is to show users/developers the easiest way to build custom Xen. Therefore, I will remove that last paragraph and point out possible use cases, highlighting our previous work and experience on this topic.

Reviewer: @pietrushnic Paragraph is changed.

As described in the blog post, our engineers added workaround support in Xen for
Secure Startup via SKINIT. With the help of Andrew Cooper (Xen maintainer),
after a few code changes, the
[patch](https://xenbits.xen.org/gitweb/?p=xen.git;a=commit;h=e4283bf38aae6c2f88cdbdaeef0f005a1a5f6c78)
was merged into the main.

As a long-time maintainer of PC Engines platforms, 3mdeb sees the opportunity to
create hardened router products that help maintain the security of the corporate
network. In addition, custom Xen gives ability to verify various firmware
features e.g. IOMMU configuration and many others which are verified by Xen
kernel while booting.

Furthermore, once a custom Xen design has been created, the stability of the
solution must be ensured. The easiest way to achieve this is to create a CI/CD
that builds and tests the solution. Our test automation team has historically
provided Xen tests for our PC Engines platform in every release. This is now
quite outdated, as the tests were run using Xen 4.8 (the current version of Xen
at the date of this blog post is 4.17). A description of how to update these

> tests could be a good extension of this blog.

Author: Laste sentence should more like:

We plan to improve transparent validation infrastructure for [Dasharo](https://dasharo.com/) compatible products soon.

Debian host and Debian guest OS. Now that I have prepared the developing
procedure I can start narrowing down all the issues.

## Possible use cases

The ability to build Xen with custom changes opens the door to creating custom

> solutions and products. In addition, it provides an opportunity to workaround

Author: @Asiderr where are the links with examples?

Reviewer: @pietrushnic I've added link to the shop.

> well-known problems and help fix them in the mainline in the long term. As a

Reviewer: I've added example with the links and the description.

> long-time maintainer of PCengines platforms, 3mdeb sees the opportunity to

Author: ```suggestion
long-time maintainer of PC Engines platforms, 3mdeb sees the opportunity to
```

Reviewer: @pietrushnic Fixed.

create hardened router products that help maintain the security of the corporate

> network.

Author: Custom Xen gives ability to verify various firmware features e.g. IOMMU configuration and many others which are verified by Xen kernel while booting.

We need very precise things here not some general overview. Less general description but more meat.

Reviewer: @pietrushnic Added.

Furthermore, once a custom Xen design has been created, the stability of the
solution must be ensured. The easiest way to achieve this is to create a CI/CD
that builds and tests the solution. Our test automation team has historically

> provided Xen tests for our PCengines platform in every release. This is now

Author: ```suggestion
provided Xen tests for PC Engines platform in every release. This is now
```

Reviewer: @pietrushnic Fixed.
